README.md, before:

# SXMac Markdown

[![Platform](https://img.shields.io/badge/Platform-MacOS-blue.svg)](https://developer.apple.com/MacOS/)
![SwiftUI](https://img.shields.io/badge/SwiftUI-orange.svg)
![Swift5](https://img.shields.io/badge/swift-5-blue.svg)


<p align="center">
    <a href="https://github.com/IvanKoskov/SXMac/blob/main/LICENSE">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/IvanKoskov/SXMac?style=for-the-badge">
    </a>
    <br>
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/IvanKoskov/SXMac?style=for-the-badge" alt="Language Badge">
    <a href="https://github.com/IvanKoskov/SXMac/actions">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/IvanKoskov/SXMac/CI?style=for-the-badge" alt="Build Status">
    </a>
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/issues/IvanKoskov/SXMac?style=for-the-badge" alt="Issues">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr/IvanKoskov/SXMac?style=for-the-badge" alt="Pull Requests">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/IvanKoskov/SXMac?style=for-the-badge" alt="Contributors">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/IvanKoskov/SXMac?style=for-the-badge" alt="Last Commit">
</p>

SXMac is a light, notes like app that can be used as a rich text editor, markdown editor and preview, code editor with more than 100 supported languages. If you need specific files or anything else in one place. 

SXMac can be used as a note taking app with simple and clear interface that is doing its job.
The main focus is to bhe able to previed .md files and dynamicly see changes in your editor.
Not just that, but file export, easy import of files and centrilzied experience.

However not being somehting well defined it serves a purpose!


## Unity

SXMac leaves what you need to quickly see a file or even start editing it. You can easily drop it to the documents folder in order for it to be recognized or use a file picker box. 

<img width="512" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e25475a2-e937-4b29-9019-0be9ab44efb3" />

## Source files editor

Code highlighting without any effort on any files you need. Yes, if you want you can use it totally for basic coding. All code editor basic functionality in it! 

<img width="712" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/59f10110-1149-406f-8ea8-99b6bec70286" />

## Markdown and rich text editor

Syntax highlighting for it and clean, clear view

<img width="712" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b45fea42-d992-4581-8099-672be6663871" />

## Preview rich markdown text

Instantly preview your markdown file (.md) with all features supported!

<img width="812" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e51a1f8c-826a-4615-bfa5-9b3cc08b60ce" />

## Quick preview changes

Quickly chnage the background color and see how it is on different backgrounds 

<img width="701" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/450cf606-3bca-4dd6-bea6-f23834982447" />

# Additional features

## HTML editor


SXMac being an editor for all kinds of formats also has a code editor for html and 
has a full featured preview of a website similar to Markdown preview

<img width="712" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0eaa4e5b-e339-43fd-b60a-8bc0d7b04373" />

## Previews

Clean and simple is what makes it usable. Simplicity!

<img width="812" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d6995ffb-59d7-4577-954d-c0c3d5d46c60" />

## Settings and more


<img width="419" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9d092f77-eed6-4c12-9152-3ad54fd02c04" />

SXMac has a special window for settings, options and not just that, but also SXMac has other functionality, file manipulation and etc what is not mentioned here. Download and install SXMac to share your opinion and review about it so we can make chnages and improve!

## Developers, contributors, thanks!

<img width="712" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fc7eccb1-6509-4b25-a1a2-50b8ec4e2270" />


<details>
  <summary>Change-log & Version notes from the first 1.0.0 build</summary>
   

## 1.0.0

- Initial "Blueprint"
- Initial version, layout, and setup
- Not usable
- To do: Alpha release
- Main functionality
- Good expectations
- Focused project
- Maybe: Integration of C++ and C into the core of the app
- Make a boost
- Usable
- Establishing UI
- Trying to keep it simple
- Do not invent the wheel again
- File manipulation
- Windows
- Color schemes
- Debugging
- Code documentation
- Set up main views
- Internal logic
- Cleaning classes

## 1.0.1

- 1.0.0 is finished
- Finished the plan
- To do: Text editor
- Custom views
- About window
- Configs maybe???
- Starting the full development of the full-featured SXMac editor
- Cleaning Objective-C bridges
- Cleaning the Objective-C code
- Fixing potential memory leaks???
- And more (see commits)
- License is planned to be changed!
- More developers may join, possibly...
- Add elements to the text editing view
- preview
- highlighting and themes support for all popular languages (over 50 well known)
- Select the format
- Reference table
- Copy buffer
- Integrated third party libraries
- New dependencies
- Internal alpha version release (1.0.5)
- New submenu in the text editor with helpful info
- Revised code
- UNCONFIRMED mobile version

## 1.0.2 Public early testing beta

- Added renderer for Markdown text
- Quick refresh the preview (almost)
- Quickly apply changes
- Syntax highlighting for over 180 supported languages and themes thanks to https://github.com/ZeeZide
- Clear UI and easy implementation
- Export, Import your changes that you have made
- Set your your out put path (finished)
- Now it can be considered usable and we plan to maintain and improve it in nearest future with more options, languages, previews, shortcuts!
- To do: fix bugs, make more options, refactor the code
- Added dynamic color picker for the preview
- Auto extension detector
- Default extension

## 1.0.3 & Public early testing beta 2.0.0

- people can try out our app!
- 1.0.5 is considered non usable
- 1.0.3 version of code should solve many errors, crashes
- 2.0.0 interanal alpha
- Added about menu in the app bar
- App bar controls coming soon
- Working on UIs
- Now themes and language highlighting is added automatically
- and more
- To do: improve usability, fix freezes in some parts of the app

## 1.0.4 & Public early testing beta 2.0.0 beta 2

- Rebuilded interface
- Main window has better table view
- Cool blur effect on the main list of files
- Solved problems when interface did not respond
- Now files changes are visible instantly
- Testing the SXMac installer for all MacOS systems (soon release)
- Some configs changes
- License will be left same
- Small UI allignment fixes
- README added
- Added an infinite process that will check for the files added
- Perfomance seems to be better
- Full HTML side support added
- Separate HTML preview
- HTML preview freezes fixes
- Fixed the some alert were not showing up

## 1.0.4 & Public early testing beta 2.0.1 beta 1

- Bugs, freezes, alerts problems fixes
- Testing all features
  
</details>


## License

SXMac © 2025 by Ivan Koskov (aka Evan Matthew) is licensed under Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International Public License. For more information open LiCENSE file.

Commit message:

UI, delete files in place

README.md, after:

# SXMac Markdown

[![Platform](https://img.shields.io/badge/Platform-MacOS-blue.svg)](https://developer.apple.com/MacOS/)
![SwiftUI](https://img.shields.io/badge/SwiftUI-orange.svg)
![Swift5](https://img.shields.io/badge/swift-5-blue.svg)


<p align="center">
    <a href="https://github.com/IvanKoskov/SXMac/blob/main/LICENSE">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/IvanKoskov/SXMac?style=for-the-badge">
    </a>
    <br>
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/IvanKoskov/SXMac?style=for-the-badge" alt="Language Badge">
    <a href="https://github.com/IvanKoskov/SXMac/actions">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/IvanKoskov/SXMac/CI?style=for-the-badge" alt="Build Status">
    </a>
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/issues/IvanKoskov/SXMac?style=for-the-badge" alt="Issues">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr/IvanKoskov/SXMac?style=for-the-badge" alt="Pull Requests">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/IvanKoskov/SXMac?style=for-the-badge" alt="Contributors">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/IvanKoskov/SXMac?style=for-the-badge" alt="Last Commit">
</p>

SXMac is a light, notes like app that can be used as a rich text editor, markdown editor and preview, code editor with more than 100 supported languages. If you need specific files or anything else in one place. 

SXMac can be used as a note taking app with simple and clear interface that is doing its job.
The main focus is to bhe able to previed .md files and dynamicly see changes in your editor.
Not just that, but file export, easy import of files and centrilzied experience.

However not being somehting well defined it serves a purpose!


## Unity

SXMac leaves what you need to quickly see a file or even start editing it. You can easily drop it to the documents folder in order for it to be recognized or use a file picker box. 

<img width="512" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e25475a2-e937-4b29-9019-0be9ab44efb3" />

## Source files editor

Code highlighting without any effort on any files you need. Yes, if you want you can use it totally for basic coding. All code editor basic functionality in it! 

<img width="712" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/59f10110-1149-406f-8ea8-99b6bec70286" />

## Markdown and rich text editor

Syntax highlighting for it and clean, clear view

<img width="712" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b45fea42-d992-4581-8099-672be6663871" />

## Preview rich markdown text

Instantly preview your markdown file (.md) with all features supported!

<img width="812" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e51a1f8c-826a-4615-bfa5-9b3cc08b60ce" />

## Quick preview changes

Quickly chnage the background color and see how it is on different backgrounds 

<img width="701" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/450cf606-3bca-4dd6-bea6-f23834982447" />

# Additional features

## HTML editor


SXMac being an editor for all kinds of formats also has a code editor for html and 
has a full featured preview of a website similar to Markdown preview

<img width="712" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0eaa4e5b-e339-43fd-b60a-8bc0d7b04373" />

## Previews

Clean and simple is what makes it usable. Simplicity!

<img width="812" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d6995ffb-59d7-4577-954d-c0c3d5d46c60" />

## Settings and more


<img width="419" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9d092f77-eed6-4c12-9152-3ad54fd02c04" />

SXMac has a special window for settings, options and not just that, but also SXMac has other functionality, file manipulation and etc what is not mentioned here. Download and install SXMac to share your opinion and review about it so we can make chnages and improve!

## Developers, contributors, thanks!

<img width="712" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fc7eccb1-6509-4b25-a1a2-50b8ec4e2270" />


<details>
  <summary>Change-log & Version notes from the first 1.0.0 build</summary>
   

## 1.0.0

- Initial "Blueprint"
- Initial version, layout, and setup
- Not usable
- To do: Alpha release
- Main functionality
- Good expectations
- Focused project
- Maybe: Integration of C++ and C into the core of the app
- Make a boost
- Usable
- Establishing UI
- Trying to keep it simple
- Do not invent the wheel again
- File manipulation
- Windows
- Color schemes
- Debugging
- Code documentation
- Set up main views
- Internal logic
- Cleaning classes

## 1.0.1

- 1.0.0 is finished
- Finished the plan
- To do: Text editor
- Custom views
- About window
- Configs maybe???
- Starting the full development of the full-featured SXMac editor
- Cleaning Objective-C bridges
- Cleaning the Objective-C code
- Fixing potential memory leaks???
- And more (see commits)
- License is planned to be changed!
- More developers may join, possibly...
- Add elements to the text editing view
- preview
- highlighting and themes support for all popular languages (over 50 well known)
- Select the format
- Reference table
- Copy buffer
- Integrated third party libraries
- New dependencies
- Internal alpha version release (1.0.5)
- New submenu in the text editor with helpful info
- Revised code
- UNCONFIRMED mobile version

## 1.0.2 Public early testing beta

- Added renderer for Markdown text
- Quick refresh the preview (almost)
- Quickly apply changes
- Syntax highlighting for over 180 supported languages and themes thanks to https://github.com/ZeeZide
- Clear UI and easy implementation
- Export, Import your changes that you have made
- Set your your out put path (finished)
- Now it can be considered usable and we plan to maintain and improve it in nearest future with more options, languages, previews, shortcuts!
- To do: fix bugs, make more options, refactor the code
- Added dynamic color picker for the preview
- Auto extension detector
- Default extension

## 1.0.3 & Public early testing beta 2.0.0

- people can try out our app!
- 1.0.5 is considered non usable
- 1.0.3 version of code should solve many errors, crashes
- 2.0.0 interanal alpha
- Added about menu in the app bar
- App bar controls coming soon
- Working on UIs
- Now themes and language highlighting is added automatically
- and more
- To do: improve usability, fix freezes in some parts of the app

## 1.0.4 & Public early testing beta 2.0.0 beta 2

- Rebuilded interface
- Main window has better table view
- Cool blur effect on the main list of files
- Solved problems when interface did not respond
- Now files changes are visible instantly
- Testing the SXMac installer for all MacOS systems (soon release)
- Some configs changes
- License will be left same
- Small UI allignment fixes
- README added
- Added an infinite process that will check for the files added
- Perfomance seems to be better
- Full HTML side support added
- Separate HTML preview
- HTML preview freezes fixes
- Fixed the some alert were not showing up

## 1.0.4 & Public early testing beta 2.0.1 beta 1

- Bugs, freezes, alerts problems fixes
- Testing all features

## 1.0.5 & Public early testing beta 2.0.1 beta 1

- Drag and Drop support
- Renaming files in place
- UI updates
- Website about our app is about to get finished

  
</details>


## License

SXMac © 2025 by Ivan Koskov (aka Evan Matthew) is licensed under Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International Public License. For more information open LiCENSE file.
